翻译动画系统 (#1722)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/animation/use-animation-curve.md

The Animation Curve stores internally a series of time points, each of which corresponds to a (curve) value, called a frame (keyframe). When the animation system runs, the Animation Component calculates the (result) value that should be assigned to the object at the specified time point based on the current animation state and completes the property change, a calculation process called sampling.

The following code snippet demonstrates how to create Animation Clips programmatically:

```ts
import { AnimationClip, animation, js } from 'cc';
const animationClip = new AnimationClip();
animationClip.duration = 1.0; // The entire period of the animation clip, the frame time of any keyframe should not be greater than this property
animationClip.keys = [ [ 0.3, 0.6, 0.9 ] ]; // The frame time shared by all curves of the clip
animationClip.curves = [{ // Animation curves on the animation component
    modifiers: [ // Address the target object from the current node object. See the "Target Objects" section below for details
        // The target object is the "Body" child of the current node.
        HierarchyPath('Body'),

>         // The "MyComponent" component on the "Body" child node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The target object is the "MyComponent" component on the "Body" child of the current node.
```

        ComponentPath(js.getClassName(MyComponent)),

>         // the "value" property on the "MyComponent" component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The target object is the "value" property on the "MyComponent" component of the "Body" child of the current node.
```

        'value',
    ],
    data: {

>         // indexed to 'animationClip.keys', i.e. [ 0.3, 0.6, 0.9 ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Indexed to 'animationClip.keys', i.e. [ 0.3, 0.6, 0.9 ]
```

        keys: 0,

>         // keyframe data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Keyframe data
```

        values: [ 0.0, 0.5, 1.0 ],
    },
}];
```

> The above Animation Clip contains an Animation Curve that controls the `value` property of the **MyComponent** component in the **Body** child node. The Animation Curve includes three keyframes that make the `value` property 0.0 at 0.3 seconds, 0.5 at 0.6 seconds, and 1.0 at 0.9 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above Animation Clip contains an Animation Curve that controls the `value` property of the **MyComponent** component in the **Body** child node. The Animation Curve includes three keyframes that make the `value` property change to 0.0 at 0.3 seconds, 0.5 at 0.6 seconds, and 1.0 at 0.9 seconds.
```

The target paths can be any combination, as long as they have the correct meaning:

```ts
modifiers: [
    // The target object is the first element of the "names" property of the "BlahBlahComponent" component on the "nested_3" child node of the "nested_2" child node of the "nested_1" child node
    new animation.HierarchyPath('nested_1/nested_2/nested_3'),
    new animation.ComponentPath(js.getClassName(BlahBlahComponent)),
    'names',
    0,
]
```

Custom target paths are useful when the target object is not an property, but must be returned from a method:

```ts
class BlahBlahComponent extends Component {
    public getName(index: number) { return _names[index]; }
    private _names: string[] = [];
}

modifiers: [
    // The target object is the first "name" of the "BlahBlahComponent" component on the "nested_3" child node of the "nested_2" child node of the "nested_1" child node
    new animation.HierarchyPath('nested_1/nested_2/nested_3'),
    new animation.ComponentPath(js.getClassName(BlahBlahComponent)),
    {
        get: (target: BlahBlahComponent) => target.getName(0),
    },
]
```

> If you want custom target paths to be serializable, you can declare them as classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For custom target paths to be serializable, declare them as classes.
```

```ts
@ccclass
class MyPath implements animation.TargetPath {
    @property
    public index = 0;
    constructor(index: number) { this.index = index; }
    get (target: BlahBlahComponent) {
        return target.getName(this.index);
    }
}

modifiers: [
    // The target object is the first "name" of the "BlahBlahComponent" component on the "nested_3" child node of the "nested_2" child node of the "nested_1" child node
    new animation.HierarchyPath('nested_1/nested_2/nested_3'),
    new animation.ComponentPath(js.getClassName(BlahBlahComponent)),
    new MyPath(0),
]
```

The addressing of the target object is done at runtime, a feature that allows animation clips to be reused on multiple objects.

## Assignment

When a value is sampled, by default the value will be set to the target object using the assignment operator `=`.

> Sometimes, however, the assignment operator cannot be used to complete the setting. For example, when setting the Uniform of a material object, you can't do it with the assignment operator. For this case, the curve field `valueAdapter` provides a mechanism to customize the value to the target object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the assignment operator cannot be used to complete the setting. For example, when setting the Uniform of a material object, it can't be done with the assignment operator. For this case, the curve field `valueAdapter` provides a mechanism to customize the value to the target object.
```

Example.

```ts
class BlahBlahComponent {
    public setUniform(index: number, value: number) { /* */ }
}

{ // curve
    valueAdapter: {
        // Called when the curve is instantiated
        forTarget(target: BlahBlahComponent) {
            // Do something useful here
            return {
                // Called each time the value of the target object is set
                set(value: number) {
                    target.setUniform(0, value);
                }
            };
        }
    },
};
```

> If you want the "custom assignment" to be serializable, you can declare them as classes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the **custom assignment** to be serializable, declare them as classes:
```

    - If the curve value is of type `number`, `Number`, linear interpolation will be applied.
    - If the curve value inherits from `ValueType`, the `lerp` function of `ValueType` will be called to complete the interpolation. `lerp` methods for most value types built into Cocos Creator are implemented as linear interpolation, e.g. `Vec3`, `vec4`, etc.
    - If the curve value is [interpolable](__APIDOC__/en/interfaces/animation.ilerpable.html), the `lerp` function for the curve value will be called to complete the interpolation <sup id="a2">[2](#f2)</sup>.

- If the curve value does not satisfy any of the above conditions, or when the `interpolate` property of the curve data is `false`, no interpolation will be performed and the curve value from the previous frame will always be used as the result.

    ```ts
    import { AnimationClip, color, IPropertyCurveData, SpriteFrame, Vec3 } from 'cc';

    const animationClip = new AnimationClip();

    const keys = [ 0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 ];
    animationClip.duration = keys.length === 0 ? 0 : keys[keys.length - 1];

>     animationClip.keys = [ keys ]; // all curves share one column of frame time

Reviewer: 代码注释里面的首单词建议也都首字母大写，这段都没有

Author: 本地已解决

                this.position.clone(),
                // The rotation property uses Quat's lerp() method
                this.rotation.lerp(to.rotation, t), //
            );
        }

        /** This method is called when not interpolating
         * It is optional, if this method is not defined, then the curve value itself (i.e. this) is used as the result value
         */
        getNoLerp () {
            return this;
        }
    }

    /**
     * Creates a curve that implements a smooth rotation but abrupt position change throughout the cycle.
     */
    function createMyCurve (): IPropertyCurveData {
        const rotation1 = quat();
        const rotation2 = quat();
        const rotation3 = quat();

        vmath.quat.rotateY(rotation1, rotation1, 0);
        vmath.quat.rotateY(rotation2, rotation2, Math.PI);
        vmath.quat.rotateY(rotation3, rotation3, 0);

        return {
            keys: 0 /* frame time */,
            values: [
                new MyCurveValue(new Vec3(0), rotation1),
                new MyCurveValue(new Vec3(10), rotation2),
                new MyCurveValue(new Vec3(0), rotation3),
            ],
        };
    }
    ```

## Wrap mode

> You can set different loop modes for animation clips by setting `AnimationClip.wrapMode`. The following lists several common wrap modes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Different loop modes can be set for Animation Clips by setting `AnimationClip.wrapMode`. The following lists several common wrap modes:
```

> You can set different loop modes for animation clips by setting `AnimationClip.wrapMode`. The following lists several common wrap modes.

Author: ```suggestion
Different wrap modes can be set for Animation Clips by setting `AnimationClip.wrapMode`. The following lists several common wrap modes:
```

| `AnimationClip.wrapMode` | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| Normal | Playback stops at the end |
| WrapMode.Loop | Loop
| PingPong | Play from the beginning to the end of the animation, then play back to the beginning from the end, and so on.

> For more loop modes, please refer to the API [WrapMode](__APIDOC__/en/enums/animation.wrapmode.html) and the documentation [Wrap Mode and Repeat Count](./animation-state.md#wrap-mode-and-repeat-count).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more loop modes, please refer to the API [WrapMode](__APIDOC__/en/enums/animation.wrapmode.html) and the [Wrap Mode and Repeat Count](./animation-state.md#wrap-mode-and-repeat-count) documentation.

> For more loop modes, please refer to the API [WrapMode](__APIDOC__/en/enums/animation.wrapmode.html) and the documentation [Wrap Mode and Repeat Count](./animation-state.md#wrap-mode-and-repeat-count).

Author: ```suggestion
For more wrap modes, please refer to the API [WrapMode](__APIDOC__/en/enums/animation.wrapmode.html) and the [Wrap Mode and Repeat Count](./animation-state.md#wrap-mode-and-repeat-count) documentation.
```
